Current core formal spec for WebAssembly Exception Handling (#121)
WebAssembly/exception-handling: document/core/exec/instructions.rst

   \end{array}

.. _exec-try:

:math:`\TRY~\blocktype~\instr_1^\ast~\CATCH~\instr_2^\ast~\END`
...............................................................

1. Assert: due to :ref:`validation <valid-blocktype>`, :math:`\expand_F(\blocktype)` is defined.

2. Let :math:`[t_1^n] \to [t_2^m]` be the :ref:`function type <syntax-functype>` :math:`\expand_F(\blocktype)`.

3. Assert: due to :ref:`validation <valid-if>`, there are at least :math:`n` values on the top of the stack.

4. Pop the values :math:`\val^n` from the stack.

5. Let :math:`L` be the label whose arity is :math:`m` and whose continuation is the end of the |TRY| instruction.

> 4. Execute the administrative instruction :math:`\CATCHN_m` by :ref:`entering <exec-instr-seq-enter>` the block :math:`\instr_1^\ast` with label :math:`L`, and reducing the resulting :ref:`throw context <syntax-ctxt-throw>`.

Author: I was trying to point to the reduction rule for `catch_n`, which now I see is strange, considering I didn't do the same for `throwaddr` in the last rule of `throw x`. Removing this and pointing "Execute" to a new place in exec/instructions containing exception-related reduction rules, as you suggested in another comment.

> 4. Execute the administrative instruction :math:`\CATCHN_m` by :ref:`entering <exec-instr-seq-enter>` the block :math:`\instr_1^\ast` with label :math:`L`, and reducing the resulting :ref:`throw context <syntax-ctxt-throw>`.

Author: Now "Execute" is pointing to the new section "Exception Handling" of this file, and the string you objected to is removed.

2. Let :math:`[t_1^n] \to [t_2^m]` be the :ref:`function type <syntax-functype>` :math:`\expand_F(\blocktype)`.

3. Assert: due to :ref:`validation <valid-try>`, there are at least :math:`n` values on the top of the stack.

4. Pop the values :math:`\val^n` from the stack.

5. Let :math:`L` be the label whose arity is :math:`m` and whose continuation is the end of the |TRY| instruction.

> 4. :ref:`Execute <exec-catchn>` the administrative instruction :math:`\CATCHN_m` by :ref:`entering <exec-instr-seq-enter>` the block :math:`\instr_1^\ast` with label :math:`L`.

Reviewer: The prose tries to avoid referring to administrative instructions, so I would express this a bit differently. I would phrase it as pushing and popping a handler on/off the stack, similar to how the prose describes function frames. That is, describe handlers as a new form of stack element in the Stack section (runtime.rst), and in the new auxiliary section Exception Handling have subsections for "installing" and exiting a handler, analogous to the ones for invoking functions.

5. Let :math:`L` be the label whose arity is :math:`m` and whose continuation is the end of the |TRY| instruction.

6. Let :math:`H` be the exception handler whose arity is :math:`m` and whose continuation is the beginning of :math:`\instr_2^\ast`.

> 7. :ref:`Install <exec-install-handler>` the exception handler `H` for the block :math:`\val^n~\instr_1^\ast` with label :math:`L`.

Reviewer: I'd separate this into installing the handler and entering the block, corresponding to the two separate administrative instructions it reduces to:
```suggestion
7. :ref:`Enter <exec-handler-enter>` the exception handler `H`.

8. :ref:`Enter <exec-instr-seq-enter>` the block :math:`\val^n~\instr_1^\ast` with label :math:`L`.
```

   Therefore, execution of a loop falls off the end, unless a backwards branch is performed explicitly.

.. index:: exception handling, throw context
   pair: handling; exception

.. _exec-catchn:

> .. _exec-exn-handling:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Exception Handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following auxiliary rules define the semantics of handling thrown exceptions
inside :ref:`throw contexts <syntax-ctxt-throw>`, such as installing, searching for,
and exiting an :ref:`exception handler <syntax-handler>` :math:`\CATCHN_n`.

.. _exec-install-handler:

Installing an exception handler :math:`H` for a block :math:`\instr^\ast` with label :math:`L`
..............................................................................................

1. Let :math:`H` be the exception handler :math:`\CATCHN_m{\instr'^\ast}`.

2. Push :math:`H` on the stack.

3. :ref:`Enter <exec-instr-seq-enter>` the block :math:`\instr^\ast` with label :math:`L`.

.. note::
   No formal reduction rule is needed for installing an exception handler
   because it is an :ref:`administrative instruction <syntax-instr-admin>`
   which exception throwing instructions will search for.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _exec-handler-exit:

```

   Therefore, execution of a loop falls off the end, unless a backwards branch is performed explicitly.

.. index:: exception handling, throw context
   pair: handling; exception

.. _exec-catch:

Exception Handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following auxiliary rules define the semantics of entering and exiting exception handlers through :ref:`try <syntax-try>` instructions and handling thrown exceptions.

.. _exec-handler-enter:

Entering an exception handler :math:`H`
.......................................

1. Push :math:`H` onto the stack.

.. note::
   No formal reduction rule is needed for installing an exception handler
   because it is an :ref:`administrative instruction <syntax-instr-admin>`
   that the :ref:`try <syntax-try>` instruction reduced to directly.

.. _exec-handler-exit:

Exiting an exception handler
............................

When the end of a :ref:`try <syntax-try>` instruction is reached without a jump, exception, or trap, then the following steps are performed.

> If an exception is thrown before the end of the |TRY| instruction, then we are in the case of :ref:`throwing <exec-throwaddr>` an exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an exception is thrown before the end of the |TRY| instruction, then the case of :ref:`throwing <exec-throwaddr>` an exception applies.
```
Or perhaps just remove the sentence -- it's kind of redundant, and we don't have such a note for trap either.

Author: sentence removed! :)

.. index:: exception handling, throw context
   pair: handling; exception

.. _exec-catchn:
.. _exec-exn-handling:

Exception Handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following auxiliary rules define the semantics of handling thrown exceptions
inside :ref:`throw contexts <syntax-ctxt-throw>`, such as installing, searching for,

> and exiting an :ref:`exception handler <syntax-handler>` :math:`\CATCHN_n`.

Author: It seems I missed this suggestion, I am incorporating it in the next commit.

.. _exec-install-handler:

> Installing an exception handler :math:`H` for a block :math:`\instr^\ast` with label :math:`L`
> ..............................................................................................

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Entering an exception handler :math:`H`
.......................................
```

> 1. Let :math:`H` be the exception handler :math:`\CATCHN_m{\instr'^\ast}`.
> 
> 2. Push :math:`H` on the stack.
> 
> 3. :ref:`Enter <exec-instr-seq-enter>` the block :math:`\instr^\ast` with label :math:`L`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Push :math:`H` onto the stack.
```

.. note::
   No formal reduction rule is needed for installing an exception handler
   because it is an :ref:`administrative instruction <syntax-instr-admin>`
   which exception throwing instructions will search for.

> Exiting an exception handler with arity :math:`m` from a block with label :math:`L`
> ...................................................................................

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exiting an exception handler
............................
```

> When the block is exited without a throw :ref:`triggering <exec-handle-exn>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the end of a :ref:`try <syntax-try>` instruction is reached without a jump, exception or trap, then the following steps are performed.
```

the exception handler, then the following steps are performed.

> 1. Assert: due to validation, there are :math:`m` values on the top of the stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Let :math:`m` be the number of values on the top of the stack.
```

2. Pop the values :math:`\val^m` from the stack.

> 3. Assert: due to :ref:`validation <valid-instr-seq>`, the exception handler :math:`H` is now on the top of the stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Assert: due to :ref:`validation <valid-instr-seq>`, the handler :math:`H` is now on the top of the stack.
```

> 4. Pop the exception handler from the stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Pop the handler from the stack.
```

5. Push :math:`\val^m` back to the stack.

> 6. Jump to the position after the |END| of the originating |TRY| instruction associated with the label :math:`L`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Jump to the position after the |END| of the originating |TRY| instruction associated with the handler :math:`H`.
```

.. math::
   ~\\[-1ex]
   \begin{array}{lcl@{\qquad}l}
   \CATCHN_m\{instr^\ast\}~\val^m~\END &\stepto& \val^m
   \end{array}

> .. _exec-search-handler:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. _exec-throwaddr:

> Searching for an exception handler for the :ref:`exception address <syntax-exnaddr>` :math:`a`
> ..............................................................................................

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throwing an exception with :ref:`exception address <syntax-exnaddr>` :math:`a`
..............................................................................
```

When a throw or a rethrow occurs, labels and call frames are popped if necessary,
until an exception handler is found on the top of the stack.

1. Assert: due to validation, :math:`S.\SEXNS[a]` exists.

> 2. Let :math:`[t^n] \to []` be the type of the exception instance :math:`S.\SEXNS[a]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Let :math:`[t^n] \to [t'^m]` be the :ref:`exception type <syntax-exntype>` :math:`S.\SEXNS[a].\EITYPE`.
```

> 3. Assert: due to validation, there are :math:`n` values on the top of the stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Assert: due to :ref:`validation <valid-try>`, there are :math:`n` values on the top of the stack.
```

4. Pop the :math:`n` values :math:`\val^n` from the stack.

5. While the stack is not empty and the top of the stack is not an exception handler, do:

   a. Pop the top element from the stack.

> 6. The stack is now either empty or there is an exception handler on the top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Assert: The stack is now either empty or there is an exception handler on the top.
```

> .. _exec-handle-exn:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

7. If there is an exception handler :math:`\CATCHN_m\{\instr^\ast\}` on the top of the stack, then:

>    a. Assert: the last element popped from the stack was the label :math:`L` whose continuation is the end of the originating |TRY| instruction.
> 
>    b. Pop the exception handler from the stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   a. Pop the exception handler from the stack.

   b. Let :math:`L` be the label whose arity is :math:`m` and whose continuation is the end of the |TRY| instruction associated with the handler.
```

>    c. Put the label :math:`L` back on the stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   c. Push the label :math:`L` on the stack.
```

>    d. Enter the block :math:`(\REFEXNADDR~a~\val^n) \instr^\ast` with label :math:`L`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   d. Enter the block :math:`\instr^\ast` with label :math:`L`.

   e. Push the :ref:`exception reference <syntax-refexnaddr>` :math:`(\REFEXNADDR~a~\val^n)` to the stack.
```

   pair: handling; exception

> .. _exec-catchn:

Reviewer: Nit: `_exec-catch` (overlooked this one).

Exception Handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following auxiliary rules define the semantics of entering and exiting exception handlers through :ref:`try <syntax-try>` instructions and handling thrown exceptions.

.. _exec-handler-enter:

Entering an exception handler :math:`H`
.......................................

1. Push :math:`H` onto the stack.

.. note::
   No formal reduction rule is needed for installing an exception handler
   because it is an :ref:`administrative instruction <syntax-instr-admin>`
   that the :ref:`try <syntax-try>` instruction reduced to directly.

.. _exec-handler-exit:

Exiting an exception handler
............................

> When the end of a :ref:`try <syntax-try>` instruction is reached without a jump, exception or trap, then the following steps are performed.

Reviewer: I just noted that a similar language tweak is probably necessary to the intro sentences to the sections on exiting a block and returning from a function (including exceptions in the enumerations of possibilities).

Exiting an exception handler
............................

> When the end of a :ref:`try <syntax-try>` instruction is reached without a jump, exception, or trap, then the following steps are performed.

Reviewer: I think in this particular place you do _not_ want to include exceptions. ;)

Author: Ooops, slip of the hand. Thanks for spotting it! :blush:

Author: @rossberg: on a second look, these are the instructions for exiting the try without an exception being thrown. If an exception is thrown then we are in the case "Throwing an exception ...", right?

Reviewer: Right.
